
.. 
   Copyright 2019 Xilinx, Inc.
  
   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
  
   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.

************************
G2 Model
************************

Overview
=========
In mathematical finance, the G2 Model (Two-additive-factor gaussian model) describes the evolution of interest rates. It is a type of "two factor model" as it describes interest rate movements as driven by only one source of market risk. The model can be used in the valuation of interest rate derivatives.

This section mainly introduces the implementation process of short-rate and discount, which is applied in Tree Swaption Engine. They are core part for option pricing. 

Implementation
===================
The class G2Model implements the two-factor model to calculate short-rate and discount. Next, the implementation process is introduced.

1. Function treeShortRate: 
   a) Since the short-rate at the current time point is independent of the short-rate at the previous time point, the short-rate is not calcutated independently. 
   b) According to time points and tree related parameters to establish 2 trinomial tree structure from 0 to N time point by time point.
2. Function shortRate: The short-rate is calculated at time point :math:`t`.
3. Function discount: The discount is calculated at time point :math:`t` with the duration :math:`dt` by function discount that based on the short-rate.
4. Function discountBond: the discount bond is calculated at time point :math:`t` with the duration :math:`dt=T-t` that based on the short-rate.

