.. 
   Copyright 2019 Xilinx, Inc.
  
   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at
  
       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
  
   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.

.. meta::
   :keywords: RNG,SobolRsg, BrownianBridge, TrinomialTree, TreeLattice, 1DMesher, OrnsteinUhlenbeckProcess, StochasticProcess1D, HWModel, G2Model, ECIRModel, CIRModel, VModel, HestonModel, BKModel, BSModel
   :description: L1 Module is the low-level primitives which could be used to build kernel and accelerate the specific option pricing. 
   :xlnxdocumentclass: Document
   :xlnxdocumenttype: Tutorials


**************************************
L1 Module User Guide
**************************************

L1 Module is the low-level primitives which could be used to build kernel and accelerate the specific option pricing.
Currently, it includes two evaluation models, Black-Scholes and Heston model, which present the change of stock price with time. It also provides Monte Carlo framework to calculate the price of option. During the evaluation of American Option, it uses Least-Square method and linear solver based on SVD decomposition.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

Core Utility
------------
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   
   Random Number Generator <RNGs/RNG.rst>
   PRNG (xoshiro128) <RNGs/xoshiro128.rst>
   Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) <SVD/SVD.rst>
   Tridiagonal Matrix Solver <TRSV/TRSV.rst>
   Pentadiagonal Matrix Solver <Pentadiag/Pentadiag.rst>
   Sobol Sequence Generator <SobolRsg/sobolrsg.rst>
   Brownian Bridge Transform <brownian/bb.rst>
   Stochastic Process <StochasticProcess/stochastic_process1d.rst>
   Ornstein-Uhlenbeck Process <StochasticProcess/ornsteinuhlenbeck_process.rst>
   Meshers <fdmmesher/fdmmesher.rst>
   Numerical Integration Methods <NumericalIntegration/NumericalIntegration.rst>
   limitations under the License. <pca/pca.rst>
   Covariance Matrix and Regularizaiton <covariance/covariance.rst>
   Probability Distribution <distribution/distribution.rst>
   Interpolation <interpolation/interpolation.rst>
   

L1 Module APIs
--------------
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   RNG <hw_api.rst>


